2018-04-10 21:05:38	thejpster	Yo, sorry I'm late.
2018-04-10 21:05:49	~japaric	thejpster: o/
2018-04-10 21:05:53	thejpster	Is the meeting here or on hangouts?
2018-04-10 21:05:57	~japaric	here
2018-04-10 21:06:00	thejpster	yay
2018-04-10 21:06:06	thejpster	I do not have a face for video today.
2018-04-10 21:06:49	~japaric	jcsoo: pftbest I assume you are around since you are on the etherpad?
2018-04-10 21:06:57	jcsoo	hey there
2018-04-10 21:06:59	pftbest_	yes
2018-04-10 21:07:16	jcsoo	hello everyone!
2018-04-10 21:07:20	jamesmunns	Ack its tuesday!
2018-04-10 21:07:39	jamesmunns	Lucky timing. Also here (now)
2018-04-10 21:08:12	~japaric	ok, let's start
2018-04-10 21:08:32	~japaric	as last week we'll go through the milestoned items to see how they have progressed
2018-04-10 21:08:52	~japaric	first, https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/embedded-wg/issues/53 has been fixed for real this time
2018-04-10 21:09:00	~japaric	so the issue has been closed
2018-04-10 21:09:02	~japaric	yay
2018-04-10 21:09:38	~japaric	next, we have embedded Rust on stable  https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/embedded-wg/issues/42
2018-04-10 21:09:47	~japaric	quite a bit has happened since last week
2018-04-10 21:10:07	~japaric	rust-std components for ARM Cortex-M have landed
2018-04-10 21:10:14	~japaric	so you can use Cargo instead of Xargo
2018-04-10 21:10:26	thejpster	I'm using then now - they work great (if you spell your targets correctly)
2018-04-10 21:10:39	~japaric	thejpster: +1
2018-04-10 21:10:40	myeisha	confirmed awesome.
2018-04-10 21:10:43	jcsoo	impressed this is all happening so quickly
2018-04-10 21:10:52	jamesmunns	Its that #allhands magic
2018-04-10 21:11:40	~japaric	ok, next #![no_std] expansion now contains `extern crate compiler_builtins`
2018-04-10 21:11:56	~japaric	so you don't need `#[feature(compiler_builtins_lib)]` feature gate anymore
2018-04-10 21:12:08	~japaric	there was some breakage in cortex-m-rt but it already got patched
2018-04-10 21:12:20	pftbest_	msp430 was also patched
2018-04-10 21:12:25	~japaric	pftbest_: +1
2018-04-10 21:12:50	jcsoo	ordering a dev board now!
2018-04-10 21:13:10	~japaric	it seems this change caused some other breakage with custom targets
2018-04-10 21:13:17	~japaric	there have been reports in the Xargo repo
2018-04-10 21:13:24	~japaric	but haven't take a look yet
2018-04-10 21:14:27	~japaric	regarding issue #42 I realized we hadn't considered unstable compiler flags
2018-04-10 21:14:52	~japaric	and quite a few people are using -Z linker-flavor to use LD, instead of GCC, as the linker
2018-04-10 21:15:19	~japaric	but linker-flavor may not be necessary with this idea from acrichto
2018-04-10 21:15:22  *	japaric digging link
2018-04-10 21:15:40	~japaric	https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/49794#issuecomment-379807238
2018-04-10 21:15:54	~japaric	basically we make rustc infer the linker flavor based on the name of the linker
2018-04-10 21:16:09	~japaric	I think that should remove the need for linker-flavor when using LD
2018-04-10 21:16:46	~japaric	I'll look into that next week unless someone else beats me to it
2018-04-10 21:17:46	pftbest_	I've seen people putting ld in a linker field, because of the name "linker", so it may be a good thing to autodetect
2018-04-10 21:18:43	~japaric	pftbest_: hmm, you mean auto select a linker based on the target name?
2018-04-10 21:19:15	pftbest_	japaric: no, detect linker flavor
2018-04-10 21:19:34	~japaric	ok
2018-04-10 21:20:15	~japaric	the only blocker to get the MVP of embedded Rust on stable is panic_fmt
2018-04-10 21:20:43	~japaric	nagisa is willing to mentor the implementation of RFC 2070, which adds a stable alternative to panic_fmt
2018-04-10 21:21:25	~japaric	so, it'll hopefully be implemented soon-ish
2018-04-10 21:21:39	nagisa	yeah, just gotta get around to writing the instructions up and making myself more available on IRC
2018-04-10 21:22:01	~japaric	I'll ask the Rust team for how long the feature should be tested before riding the train towards stable
2018-04-10 21:22:20	nagisa	for panic_fmt, there ainâ€™t much risk
2018-04-10 21:22:49	nagisa	we could probably manage to stabilise after 6 weeks after it is implemented (i.e. the next release)
2018-04-10 21:23:18	~japaric	nagisa: that'd be great
2018-04-10 21:23:45	~japaric	ok, I think that concludes issue #42 (embedded on stable), unless someone wants to bring some other point
2018-04-10 21:24:11	myeisha	japaric: i'm still seeing linker errors, but that might not be related
2018-04-10 21:24:19	~japaric	the other issue that saw some progress is #43 - one step setup
2018-04-10 21:24:21	myeisha	(with lto disabled, anyway)
2018-04-10 21:24:59	~japaric	myeisha: linker scripts can be tricky; I found a few holes after multiple codegen units became the default
2018-04-10 21:25:19	myeisha	i'll debug some more and report results later.
2018-04-10 21:25:29	~japaric	regarding #43, the latest release of cortex-m-rt supports linking with LLD
2018-04-10 21:25:33	~japaric	myeisha: +1
2018-04-10 21:25:48	jamesmunns	Do we want to make a Rust on Stable 1.1 issue to track stuff like `const fn` and `#[used]` that are nice to have?
2018-04-10 21:26:08	~japaric	details in https://users.rust-lang.org/t/cortex-m-rt-v0-4-0-now-you-can-link-arm-cortex-m-programs-using-lld/16751/1
2018-04-10 21:26:22	jamesmunns	(not sure if we had other stuff we ditched, other than stabilizing asm)
2018-04-10 21:27:02	~japaric	jamesmunns: #42 already lists const fn, #[used] and asm
2018-04-10 21:27:20	jamesmunns	(sorry, I meant if we wanted to close #42 once we have the stable mvp)
2018-04-10 21:27:37	thejpster	Can I ask, is there a process for getting `extern crate compiler_builtins;` removed from everything on crates.io?
2018-04-10 21:28:19	~japaric	jamesmunns: we could close it, or re-use the issue and remove the milestone
2018-04-10 21:28:22	thejpster	Oh, no, ignore me.
2018-04-10 21:28:30	jamesmunns	:+1:
2018-04-10 21:28:33	~japaric	probably closing is better for tracking progress though
2018-04-10 21:29:21	~japaric	thejpster: I'd say the process is let authors fix their stuff once they realize it broke
2018-04-10 21:29:56	thejpster	japaric, it's be being an idiot. Let me rephrase the question. Can we produce better errors if you try and use a target that you haven't installed with rustup?
2018-04-10 21:29:57	~japaric	or do you think we should proactively send PRs to fix stuff, or similar?
2018-04-10 21:30:17	thejpster	thumbv7em-none-eabi != thumbv7em-none-eabihf != thumbv7-none-eabi
2018-04-10 21:30:24	~japaric	oh, yeah I think the error looks a bit weird now
2018-04-10 21:30:34	--	saiba_ is now known as saiba
2018-04-10 21:30:35	~japaric	I think it says 'compiler_builtins' crate is missing
2018-04-10 21:30:37	thejpster	It shouts at you about compiler_builtins not existing
2018-04-10 21:30:43	~japaric	whereas before it said 'core' is missing
2018-04-10 21:31:13	thejpster	I moved into a folder with a .cargo/config and it all got weird.
2018-04-10 21:31:15	~japaric	I think that can be fixed be swapping the order of the 'extern crate's in the expansion
2018-04-10 21:31:41	thejpster	If it was possible to add "Help: have you used rustup to add the target $TARGET"
2018-04-10 21:31:46	thejpster	that would really help
2018-04-10 21:32:03	jcsoo	+1 ran into this myself
2018-04-10 21:32:07	myeisha	+1
2018-04-10 21:32:48	wyvern	I also had that "duh" moment when I tried the `xargo`-free lifestyle
2018-04-10 21:32:57	~japaric	thejpster: swapping the order of the extern crates produces the old error message
2018-04-10 21:33:04	~japaric	"note: the `thumbv6m-none-eabi` target may not be installed"
2018-04-10 21:33:27	~japaric	can someone open an issue and cc oli-obk?
2018-04-10 21:33:34	~japaric	the expansion should be
2018-04-10 21:33:37	~japaric	#[macro_use]
2018-04-10 21:33:37	~japaric	extern crate core;
2018-04-10 21:33:37	~japaric	extern crate compiler_builtins;
2018-04-10 21:33:46	~japaric	right now it looks the other way around
2018-04-10 21:34:08	~japaric	and compiler_builtins has a #[macro_use] on it, which it's not required
2018-04-10 21:35:20	jamesmunns	I'll make a ticket
2018-04-10 21:35:26	jamesmunns	rust-lang/rust, right?
2018-04-10 21:35:27	~japaric	jamesmunns: thanks
2018-04-10 21:35:30	~japaric	jamesmunns: yes
2018-04-10 21:35:35	jamesmunns	(issue, too much time in JIRA at work)
2018-04-10 21:35:57	pftbest_	how can you see what #[no_std] expands to?
2018-04-10 21:36:13	~japaric	pftbest_: `cargo expand`
2018-04-10 21:36:20	pftbest_	oh
2018-04-10 21:36:22	~japaric	it's a custom subcommand
2018-04-10 21:36:27	~japaric	so you need to install it first
2018-04-10 21:36:34	pftbest_	thanks
2018-04-10 21:36:45	~japaric	but it's just sugar for: cargo rustc -- -Z pretty=expanded or something
2018-04-10 21:37:07	pftbest_	i thought it is just for macros
2018-04-10 21:38:07	~japaric	ok, after that detour
2018-04-10 21:38:13	~japaric	I was saying something about lld
2018-04-10 21:38:59	~japaric	I had to work around some issue by patching the linker script in cortex-m-rt but after that it seems to work
2018-04-10 21:39:35	~japaric	and you can use the lld shipped with the Rust toolchain, instead of having to install arm-non-eabi-ld
2018-04-10 21:39:42	adamgreig	i've been having some weird issues today that only appeared with lld and not with ld, but can't say for sure they were lld and haven't really narrowed down yet
2018-04-10 21:39:51	adamgreig	being able to use rust lld is really nice though
2018-04-10 21:40:16	~japaric	adamgreig: please open a ticket in cortex-m-rt if you can repro the issues with lld
2018-04-10 21:40:20	adamgreig	yea will do
2018-04-10 21:40:24	~japaric	adamgreig: +1
2018-04-10 21:42:30	~japaric	the other bullet under issue #43 are the llvm-tools
2018-04-10 21:42:37	~japaric	there's a discussion on the rust-lang/rust repo
2018-04-10 21:42:44	~japaric	https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/49584
2018-04-10 21:42:51	~japaric	it has quite a few thumbs up
2018-04-10 21:43:14	~japaric	but still need an official OK from whichever team is supposed to OK it
2018-04-10 21:43:55	~japaric	making a PoC PR may speed up things
2018-04-10 21:44:27	~japaric	I have no bandwidth for that this week though
2018-04-10 21:45:03	~japaric	the other issue that made some progress in the book / documentation one
2018-04-10 21:45:34	~japaric	the embedonomicon landed in the WG repo
2018-04-10 21:45:40	~japaric	and jamesmunns added some stuff for CI
2018-04-10 21:46:04	~japaric	but I think there's no hosting yet
2018-04-10 21:46:15	jamesmunns	(working on it :) )
2018-04-10 21:46:26	~japaric	jamesmunns: +1
2018-04-10 21:46:34	jamesmunns	one important question, where do we want to host it (domain wise)
2018-04-10 21:47:02	jamesmunns	I can pretty easily spin it on to one of my existing domains (jamesmunns.com, onevariable.com), or I can buy a new domain that is relevant
2018-04-10 21:47:34	~japaric	I think some domain with the words rust and embedded on it would make it feel more right
2018-04-10 21:48:01	~japaric	and there's already rustembedded.org (?) and areweembedded.com (?)
2018-04-10 21:48:02	jamesmunns	but tbh, it would be nice to have at something like `http://www.rust-embedded.org/`
2018-04-10 21:48:57	jamesmunns	(which is owned by the community, they've offered to share, but I would need to set up the domain correctly, I'll follow up with them, or register something in the next week or so
2018-04-10 21:49:10	~japaric	jamesmunns: we can ask posborne / nastevens
2018-04-10 21:49:47	jamesmunns	https://gitlab.onevariable.com/james/embedded-wg-ci/ already builds the books as artifacts, so I just need to shove that into an nginx container and deploy it somewhere
2018-04-10 21:50:37	wyvern	(not to derail the conversation, but hosting on s3 is near-free, ultra reliable, and you get a Let's Encrypt cert too)
2018-04-10 21:51:11	jamesmunns	wyvern good point. Right now I have a digitalocean droplet that sits at about 0.1% load, so I never mind shoving more into that. S3 is a good option too
2018-04-10 21:51:35	wyvern	less to worry about when the next heartbleed hits :)
2018-04-10 21:51:50	thejpster	I would generally promote a community resource. I'm sure @jamesmunns isn't going anywhere, but I've seen examples where someone ran a website and then left the group.
2018-04-10 21:51:57	jamesmunns	For static sites its about the same
2018-04-10 21:52:22	adamgreig	is github pages + custom domain an option?
2018-04-10 21:52:29	jamesmunns	Yeah, if we could get one of the official official websites to provide hosting (like next to the current books), I would be happy with that. this is only until that happens
2018-04-10 21:52:48	jamesmunns	so this is hosting for the book until the 1.0 release (of the book), then we expect it will live somewhere else
2018-04-10 21:52:59	thejpster	If expenditure is required, maybe we need to set up a community group and get a bank account? This feels like the kind of thing Rust needs to solve once and copy-paste.
2018-04-10 21:53:46	jamesmunns	re: expenditure, I'm fine with the $xx/year for now, if it makes life easier
2018-04-10 21:54:18	jamesmunns	But, agreed, long term, I shouldn't be a single point of failure
2018-04-10 21:54:46	jamesmunns	I'm happy to make it happen now, and hand it off to somewhere more official (once that exists)
2018-04-10 21:56:51	thejpster	+1
2018-04-10 21:57:20	thejpster	If it helps, I have a Raspberry Pi 3 on Mythic Beasts I can point arbitrary stuff at. If we want to round-robin the DNS or something.
2018-04-10 21:58:05	jamesmunns	lets follow up with this and let japaric cover anything else that still needs to be discussed :)
2018-04-10 21:58:10	jamesmunns	(follow up after)
2018-04-10 21:58:28	~japaric	I have nothing more to cover
2018-04-10 21:58:32	jamesmunns	oh
2018-04-10 21:58:37	~japaric	if someone wants to bring anything else they have 2 mins
2018-04-10 21:59:19	adamgreig	i'm back at trying to make a unified stm32 device support and/or hal implementation thing, if anyone else is interested in chatting about it sometime
2018-04-10 21:59:38	adamgreig	i have quite a good foothold on what is shared with what and how and what differs and where etc, but obviously a ton of work ahead
2018-04-10 21:59:55	jcsoo	@adamgreig - I am working on this too, would love to compare notes
2018-04-10 22:00:08	adamgreig	cool, let's
2018-04-10 22:00:14	myeisha	heh. we can make a club.
2018-04-10 22:00:14	pftbest_	japaric: how would one go about adding msp430-none-elf targets in rustup?
2018-04-10 22:00:28	jamesmunns	adamgreig: if any changes would be necessary/nice to have in svd2rust, feel free to ping me :)
2018-04-10 22:00:38	jcsoo	@adamgreig - email me at jcsoo@agora.com and we can set up a time to talk!
2018-04-10 22:00:59	ryankurte	@japaric is there a problem with the current gh pages hosting? Supports custom domains, free and zero hassle, easy to front with cloudflare or the like if we need anything tricky.
2018-04-10 22:01:00	~japaric	I'm going to officially end this meeting. Thanks everyone for attending!